FOMOphobia is a network-connected installation that immerses the
viewer in a visualization of the artist's real-time social
networking anxiety, sounding alarms and keeping count of unhandled
content. IMG_2087 Fear Of Missing Out (FOMO) is a form of social
anxiety described as "a compulsive concern that one might miss an
opportunity for social interaction, a novel experience, or other
satisfying event." FOMO is the result of our bombardment by modern
networking, more insidious because we take an active part in it,
simultaneously stressed out about and perpetuating our own addiction.

FOMOphobia brings this private guilt to the surface with glaring
numeric displays and alarm bells. It exposes the artist's social
networking burden and addiction, revealing both the accumulation and
content of his social media messages. FOMOphobia provokes viewers to
re-weigh the value of their relentless connectedness.

Like social media itself, FOMOphobia simultaneously attracts and
repels. The installation features individual monitors for each of the
artist's most insistent social media and chairs inviting the
visitor to become immersed in the piece.  Each monitor consists of a
prominent numeric LED counter of the number of unread or unhandled
items, paired with a clangorous electric bell that sounds whenever the
number increments. A single line LED display scrolls through messages
as they are received exposing the content of the artist's social
networking.

At the debut of FOOMOphobia there were five individual pieces
representing Twitter, Facebook, email, sms/voicemail, and rss feeds
(blog reader). Each piece consisted of a two-by-two foot wooden
medallion of white mahogany inlaid into golden oak replicating in
large-scale the familiar iPhone icons, a large red LED numeric display
showing the number of unread messages inset into the upper right
corner (also calling to mind the badge notifications on an iPhone), a
red alphanumeric display along the bottom displaying incoming
messages, and a red alarm bell hung above the piece.

As each message arrived, the corresponding piece would ring for
several seconds, the number of unread messages would be updated, and
the message, sms, email, or tweet would be displayed.
